content: V1.1 RC2 (#1298)
slsa-framework/slsa: docs/spec/v1.1-rc2/threats.md

---
title: Threats & mitigations
description: A comprehensive technical analysis of supply chain threats and their corresponding mitigations in SLSA.
---

What follows is a comprehensive technical analysis of supply chain threats and

> their corresponding mitigations in SLSA. For an introduction to the

Reviewer: Like in threats-overview.md this page covers mitigations that go beyond SLSA.

We should update to address this.  Perhaps with something like

```suggestion
their corresponding mitigations with SLSA and other best practices. For an introduction to the
```

Other spots will need improvement too.  I can send a PR.

Author: Make your PR against the working draft, once it's merged, I'll update this PR accordingly

builds. An adversary first runs a build that replaces the `make` binary with a
malicious version, then subsequently runs an otherwise benign build. Solution:
The builder changes architecture to start each build with a clean machine image.

</details>
<details><summary>Steal cryptographic secrets <span>(Build L3)</span></summary>

*Threat:* Use or exfiltrate the provenance signing key or some other
cryptographic secret that should only be available to the build platform.

*Mitigation:* Builds are [isolated] from the trusted build platform control
plane, and only the control plane has [access][unforgeable] to cryptographic
secrets.

*Example:* Provenance is signed on the build worker, which the adversary has
control over. Adversary uses a malicious process that generates false provenance
and signs it using the provenance signing key. Solution: Builder generates and
signs provenance in the trusted control plane; the worker has no access to the
key.

</details>
<details><summary>Poison the build cache <span>(Build L3)</span></summary>

*Threat:* Add a malicious artifact to a build cache that is later picked up by a
benign build process.

> *Mitigation:* Build caches must be [isolate][isolated] between builds to prevent

Reviewer: Typo

```suggestion
*Mitigation:* Build caches must be [isolated][isolated] between builds to prevent
```

Reviewer: I'll address in a PR against draft.

"dependency threats".

<details id="runtime-dep"><summary>Use a compromised dependency at runtime <span>(modeled separately)</span></summary>

*Threat:* Load a compromised artifact at runtime, thereby compromising the user
or environment where the software ran.

*Example:* MyPackage lists package Dep as a runtime dependency. Adversary
publishes a compromised version of Dep that runs malicious code on the user's
machine when Dep is loaded at runtime. An end user installs MyPackage, which in
turn installs the compromised version of Dep. When the user runs MyPackage, it
loads and executes the malicious code from Dep.

*Mitigation:* N/A - This threat is not currently addressed by SLSA. SLSA's
threat model does not explicitly model runtime dependencies. Instead, each
runtime dependency is considered a distinct artifact with its own threats.

</details>

## Availability threats

<!--
**TODO:** Merge into the list above rather than having a separate section.
-->

An availability threat is a potential for an adversary to deny someone from
reading a source and its associated change history, or from building a package.

> SLSA v1.0 does not address availability threats, though future versions might.

Reviewer: I wonder if, in the future, we should replace the literal version in text with some sort of variable that gets evaluated when rendered?

> SLSA v1.0 does not address availability threats, though future versions might.

Reviewer: I'll address in a PR against draft.

build process or provenance generation.

*Example:* MyPackage is built on Awesome Builder under the project "mypackage".
Adversary is an owner of the "mypackage" project. Awesome Builder allows
owners to debug the build environment via SSH. An adversary uses this feature
to alter a build in progress. Solution: Build L3 requires complete provenance, the
attackers access and/or actions within the SSH would be enumerated within the

> external parameters. The updated external parameters will not match the declared

Reviewer 2: At L3, completeness of provenance is still only a "SHOULD" [recommendation](https://slsa.dev/spec/v1.1/requirements#provenance-generation), but not a hard requirement, so access patterns and such would not necessarily be enumerated. I believe the L3 ephemeral, strong isolation, and unforgeable provenance requirements were originally intended as the means through which the tenant cannot influence other builds or provenance generation.

Reviewer: Maybe we need to be somewhat more clear. L3 does require that the _external parameters_ are complete (https://slsa.dev/spec/v1.1/requirements#provenance-generation:~:text=External%20parameters%20MUST%20be%20fully%20enumerated.) and this risk should be addressed by that requirement.

E.g, the SSH connection (and activity that takes place within it) should count as an external parameter.

Reviewer 3: https://slsa.dev/spec/draft/requirements#:~:text=The%20build%20platform%20MUST%20NOT%20open%20services%20that%20allow%20for%20remote%20influence%20unless%20all%20such%20interactions%20are%20captured%20as%20externalParameters%20in%20the%20provenance states a requirement that for L3, these types of influences must be captured as `externalParameters`. 

What is missing for me, however  is what the _expectation_ is. Would verifiers fail if there are _any_ `externalParameters` or would they just fail if there are _certain_ ones?

Reviewer: I believe that is covered here: https://slsa.dev/spec/draft/verifying-artifacts#:~:text=The%20package%20ecosystem%20MAY%20allow%20an%20approved%20list%20of%20externalParameters%20to%20be%20ignored%20during%20verification.%20Any%20unrecognized%20externalParameters%20SHOULD%20cause%20verification%20to%20fail.

Reviewer: Let me see if my network connectivity is good enough to send a fix...

Reviewer: It's not going to happen.

@arewm would you have time to send this today?  I think it should be a straightforward change.

Reviewer 3: What fix were you thinking? I was thinking that the text seems consistent. 😅

Reviewer 3: Ah, I can propose a change to say that the external parameters need to be complete.

Reviewer 3: https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa/pull/1315
